---
date: 2020-04-28
url: 2020-04-28-ipfs-0-5-0
title: IPFS 0.5.0 is here: Our largest upgrade to IPFS yet.
author: 
header_image: 
tags: 
---

*go-ipfs 0.5.0 is a major step forward on our journey toward a more efficient, secure, and resilient web to preserve and grow humanity’s knowledge.* 

We’re happy to share that IPFS 0.5.0, the largest upgrade to the IPFS protocol and Public Network yet, is now available. The result of extensive community feedback and rigorous focus, IPFS 0.5.0 offers major performance and reliability updates so that you can distribute content peer-to-peer more efficiently and affordably than ever before.

[Potential Video Spot]

[Check out our changelog if you’d like to dive right into the details.]

## What IPFS 0.5.0 Means for the Web
Today’s web is fragile, inefficient and expensive. It’s built on a client-server model that finds and serves up content based on its location on a particular host — no matter how far away or inaccessible. It is a system that can no longer stand up to the highly dynamic ways we communicate, create, work, consume and connect.

The distributed web is changing that. IPFS rearchitects the web to work peer to peer, addressing data by **what** it is instead of **where** it’s located. In doing so, IPFS powers a resilient and scalable network. Our latest release, IPFS 0.5.0, offers even greater performance and reliability to meet the increasing demands on the web today, as well as into the future.

## Community Feedback Was Our Roadmap
The IPFS Public Network has experienced substantial growth (scaling 30x in 2019!), bringing new opportunities for IPFS users and the wider InterPlanetary ecosystem. Major deployments and applications that require fast and reliable connectivity have started building on and supporting IPFS:
* **Opera & Brave:** [Opera](https://blog.ipfs.io/2020-03-30-ipfs-in-opera-for-android/) became the first major web browser to offer default IPFS support on Android, shortly after [Brave](https://blog.ipfs.io/2019-10-08-ipfs-browsers-update/) started directly embedding the IPFS Companion extension (complete with a built-in js-ipfs node). This means millions of people around the world now have access to the decentralized web built directly into their browsers.
* **Microsoft ION:**  [Microsoft has turned to IPFS](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-active-directory-identity/toward-scalable-decentralized-identifier-systems/ba-p/560168) as the content addressed storage layer to power its take on a decentralized identity system.
* **Netflix:**  [We began collaborating](https://blog.ipfs.io/2020-02-14-improved-bitswap-for-container-distribution/) on ways to incorporate peer-to-peer services into Netflix’s developer tooling to speed up their massive container layer distribution.
* **Cloudflare:** Cloudflare runs a [distributed web gateway](https://www.cloudflare.com/distributed-web-gateway/) to serve content hosted on IPFS easily, quickly, and securely.

We worked with these organizations, as well as many active IPFS users and our broader community, to source feedback and identify priorities for this release and the remainder of 2020. With their help, we zeroed in on two major pain points: performance and reliability. 

## Performance and Reliability Upgrades in IPFS 0.5.0

Our performance work centered around **content routing**, the process of finding and fetching the data you need to load a website, watch a video or use an app. Now that our distributed network scales to **100,000s of nodes**, we need to be much more rigorous about what nodes should participate in routing requests and where we should announce new content to improve overall reliability.

Here are a few of the improvements made in IPFS 0.5.0:

[Illustration 1]

* **Faster content discovery:**  IPFS 0.5.0 makes finding and sharing data in the network much faster, thanks to large improvements to our DHT logic. More efficient routing and providing—already 2-3x faster—lowers bandwidth usage and background traffic. We’ve also updated our experimental QUIC transport to reduce connection latency and round-trips - with the aim to make this the default next release!
* **Speedy files transfers:** We sped up our file transfer mechanism, Bitswap, to make sharing data between many nodes much faster. [Read more](https://blog.ipfs.io/2020-02-14-improved-bitswap-for-container-distribution/) about how we worked with Netflix to benchmark and stress-test these improvements!
* **Faster file adding:** It’s now up to 2x faster to add files to the IPFS network using the Badger datastore on Linux and MacOS. Huzzah for async writes! We’ve also configured Badger to use less memory.
* **Faster and more reliable mutable links:** The Inter-Planetary Name System (IPNS), our system for creating mutable links for content addresses, now provides faster naming lookups and has a new experimental pubsub transport to speed up record distribution. Providing an IPNS record is now 30-40x faster in our test network!

To ensure the reliability of all these large-scale improvements, we created [Testground], a new testing tool for peer-to-peer networks at scale. This allowed us to validate and benchmark each enhancement across many network configurations with 1K+ node simulations - increasing development velocity and rigor.

## But wait - there’s more!

We said this was a major release, after all. 😉 In IPFS 0.5, we also made great progress on the developer tools and security front, including:

* **Broader support for security and encryption protocols:** IPFS now uses Transport Layer Security (TLS),  an open standard for transport security, by default to help maintain secure connections between clients and servers.
* **Developer experience improvements:**  IPFS 0.5.0 supports many existing tools and workflows, making the power of decentralization accessible to more developers. Updates include:
  * **Subdomains in the HTTP gateway:**  Developers can now put dapps (decentralized apps) in isolated origins to create security isolations if they’re using DNSlink. 
  * **/ipfs/peer_id → /p2p/peer_id:** We now disambiguate ipfs files from addresses by using /p2p/ for the latter
  * **.eth link support:**  Blockchain-based .eth links are supported by default, opening up IPFS further to decentralized application developers (support for more distributed TLDs coming soon!).

Please see our [changelog] for the comprehensive list of IPFS 0.5.0. updates, as well as our deep dive on all the great things in this release (coming tomorrow!).
